hi i'm orlando i've been an
animal rights activist with direct
action everywhere for the past four
years
i am no longer vegan and a lot of people
have been asking me why so i decided to
make this video to try to summarize
why i think veganism has actually become
counterproductive to animal liberation
and i hope that by the end of this video
you'll be convinced to stop using this
identity to describe yourself
[Music]
veganism is only a strategy it seems to
me that the animal
rights movement got confused and started
thinking that veganism was the goal
i think it's really significant both for
our own
sanity as vegans and in
accurately and honestly representing
what's happening within veganism to the
outside world
that we recognize the aspects of the
movement
that are perceived as insane and
cult-like
within the movement like some of this
stuff is crazy
to vegans themselves ourselves right
um and again it's important just in
maintaining our own
sanity it's interesting too
that this particular cult like
bait and switch game that direct action
ever has been playing for approximately
five years now
it's interesting that it has endured so
long
within direct action everywhere that
they continue to play to this day
even though they've been challenged on
it publicly many times it's been debated
many times been pointed out to them many
times
just how incoherent and indeed crazy it
is
the game in brief is this they at first
attract followers
into their movement with the kind of
promise
that all they're doing is promoting
veganism and veganism is something
we understand and it's safe i mean it's
challenging
but it won't put you in prison and then
they
invert the ethical claim and tell you
that veganism is totally inadequate
or even that it's immoral and wrong that
you're somehow betraying
or letting down the agenda of animal
rights of so-called
animal liberation come back to the
significance of that term in just a
moment
if you merely support and propound
veganism that in fact veganism is this
terrible corrupting influence on the
animal rights movement
that ought to be more strident more
violent
more interventionists that ought to get
involved with burning down slaughter
houses and this kind of thing
so you can see this is not so much a
recruitment tool it's a method of
radicalization
the first step is to recruit someone and
then
to radicalize them and the very
reasonableness of veganism
makes the term the ideology the
methodology of veganism
and unwanted encumbrance to the
fundamentally
violent radical revolutionary methods
and agenda
of dxe veganism is only a strategy it
seems to me that the animal rights
movement got confused and started
thinking that veganism was the goal
you hear things like we're fighting for
a vegan world or the vegan movement
but again veganism is only a strategy to
achieve animal liberation
so in a simple
non-confrontational factual way i hear i
have to say
he's wrong the objective of the vegan
movement
is veganism i mean the idealistic
impossible to achieve
objective would indeed be a vegan world
not animal liberation so what we're
describing here really are
two separate movements both of which
make use of the same key term the same
crucial piece of jargon
in different ways it may be that for him
veganism is just one strategy employed
in what he calls
animal liberation and they are employing
it as i've just explained in a somewhat
cynical way
to at first attract people recruit
people and then radicalize them to
twist them to the purpose that dxe is
pursuing okay but that's not what i'm
doing
that's not what the vegan movement is
doing the vegan movement is instead
doing exactly what he
decries and deplores as somehow immoral
inadequate and wrong
right we just want to promote
this moral code called veganism and i
mean
if we could even get five percent of
people to adhere to our moral code that
can bring about a big profound
meaningful change in the world i do not
imagine a world where even 50 percent of
people are vegan
within my lifetime or within 200 years
went 300 years but if we can get 5
or 10 we can start making really
meaningful changes in the world
made a million videos talking about this
it's not the case that even five percent
of people wanted
seat belts installed in cars there
wasn't the case that even five percent
of people wanted to make alcohol illegal
when the united states of america
embarked on their campaign uh so-called
temperance
to eliminate the alcohol during the
united states all kinds of political
movements good and bad
successful and failures have come about
with
less than 10 of people supporting them
the single most important in my lifetime
has been the triumph of gay rights
all right so you can have a
well-organized discipline movement of
five percent of people or less
that makes meaningful difference in the
world and of course we are making a
meaningful difference
for ourselves and in our own lives if
only one percent of people are vegan
i still want to be part of that one
percent i want to be part of that
movement i want to be part of that
community and i want you to join me and
that can be a meaningful and positive
thing in your life
joining this other movement this evil
twisted
violent anti-social movement that dxe is
propounding a movement i don't even have
a name for
right joining their so-called animal
liberation movement
and getting yourself put in prison now
that's not positive in your life in my
life at
all point in my channel one of the major
points was to denounce and decry what
that movement really is
and they may also use this term veganism
as explained
in a very different way so what he's
doing from his perspective is sincere
enough here where he says oh
for him veganism is merely a means to an
end it's merely a tactic
it's not the real goal it's not the real
value it's not the real movement
but for me the exact opposite is true
you hear things like we're fighting for
a vegan world or the vegan movement
but again veganism is only a strategy to
achieve animal liberation
the issue about this term animal
liberation
is i think covered well enough in an
earlier video that i'll provide the link
to in the description but
actually i've had many many videos
discussing this from many many angles
what this has to do with is the
intellectual legacy of
peter singer and the strange thing is
that dxe wants to identify themselves
with
this intellectual and political legacy
of peter singer even though it is
one not vegan and two
it is now largely discredited not just
then the vegan
so this may not be a big deal to some of
you in the audience but let me tell you
if you're in the tiny minority of vegans
who actually read
um the philosophy and political theory
attached to the movement this would be a
big deal to you
then peter singer very casually talks
about eating meat
in his own life when he's in a
particular situation at a restaurant
other people
order meat and he'll eat meat too for no
reason
and he has his moral philosophical
justification that he has his so-called
cognitivist argument where he basically
argues
completely unscientifically that animals
are
so stupid that as long as you kill them
suddenly enough
they don't suffer in dying and there's
no um
loss of utility in their loss of life
it's
completely insane and surreal based on
his pseudo-utilitarian philosophy
and then uh thirdly he has this this
notion of substitutability not just of
animals but of human beings
and this argument is it is genuinely
this absurd
he he believes that a parent has the
right to murder their own child
so long as they're going to replace that
child with one that is
um equivalent is going to live as good a
life or better
and obviously this has much more
applicability to animals where he thinks
it's fine to kill a particular pig a
particular dog a particular horse
as long as you're going to replace it so
this is an ethic
of replaceability and interchangeability
of one life we're not
is totally bizarre and again um as long
as the animals he said this many many
times i've had many videos
directly quoting his exact wording and
the exact source he has said many many
times that as long as the animals
live decently and are killed decently on
farms in factory farms in
slaughterhouses and afterwards
then he's fine with it and he's fine
with people eating their flesh and with
the animals being born and created
so look if you like peter singer's
philosophy of so-called animal
liberation
you're not vegan and in what sense you
are even an animal rights
activist is difficult for me to imagine
you can imagine why there would be a lot
of so-called reducetarians or kind of
meat-eating left-of-center hippies who
would prefer
the philosophy of of peter singer but
the use of this term
animal liberation and this revival of
of peter singer's approach is
not even compatible with this more
radical
violent interventionist philosophy and
method proposed by dxe
but for whatever reason that is the
philosophical path they've taken i just
want to close this
part of the video by saying i don't
recommend
anyone read peter singer's books in
general i don't recommend anyone do the
reading that i've done
about the philosophical and kind of
political theory side
of veganism i think your time could be
better spent reading
plato or aristotle or reading about the
political history of
modern china or the collapse of the
soviet union there
are all kinds of books you can read on
politics you can learn a lot from
and that could kind of indirectly
inspire your activism you can read about
the history of the success of the gay
rights movement or
how did alexandria ocasio-cortez become
so successful in a short
you could learn something from that you
could apply to veganism usefully
however if you do that more technical
reading
within the vegan movement it's true that
then you'll understand
why certain pieces of jargon are used
um what's attached to those pieces of
jargon so for this
this particular kind of puzzle it gives
you more of the puzzle pieces to work
with
veganism is only a strategy to achieve
animal liberation
there are many other strategies like
rescuing animals by going into farms
changing the laws to give animals
personhood if you just stop and think
about those few examples he's given you
you'll realize that he is treating
veganism
as an inadequate and insincere
root to the objectives that he is
proposing that he is espousing whereas
for us
for people like me we really are
sincerely
espousing veganism that really is the
destination we're going towards
i don't want animals to have the legal
rights of personhood
i don't want that if you have a rat
infestation
in the basement of a museum where those
rats will
chew up books and manuscripts and
paintings
where they will damage ancient artifacts
i don't want the museum to say well what
are we supposed to do
we can't exterminate rats we can't
exterminate cockroaches
we can't exterminate termites they all
have the rights of
personhood and this is a dead serious
debate
that goes on within veganism there's the
so-called citizenship approach there's
the so-called denizen approach i'm
i'm not joking it is really seriously
proposed and debated within the movement
to what extent cockroaches and rats
should have human rights and the rights
of citizenship
and like to what extent the government
even
should be obliged to pay for rats
to have access to veterinary care like
with taxpayers it gets crazy
and this is one of many reasons why i
don't identify myself as an animal
rights activist
i identify myself as a vegan activist
and a vegan activist
only yes i would like to achieve a vegan
world even if that's impossible is i
would like to
reach out to every rational reasonable
person and say hey
why are you making these excuses for
eating milk and eating eggs
be rational be reasonable be vegan do
your part to make the world a better
place
think about the positive difference you
can make i am not reaching out to
anybody
saying what we really should achieve is
giving
rats cockroaches wild bears
the rights of human beings wild wolves
feral pigs no that's not my objective
and therefore it's false to criticize me
as if i'm using veganism
as an insincere or inadequate means to
that objective
and conversely i don't see this legal
personhood argument
as a meaningful or useful means to
achieving veganism
so there you go one of the massive
fissures within the vegan movement
invisible to many insiders invisible to
many outsiders take this distinction
do with it what you will and you can
click on the link below this video
to see more discussion explaining i
don't know some of the inside baseball
some of the secret coded language um
that lies beneath these fissures
go to the direct action everywhere
website and search
the word vegan up pops intrinsically
moved
the main reason uh consumerist advocacy
is the wrong approach you see it stop
talking about veganism then it also says
veganism
is not cruelty free and then it says how
the go vegan message
perpetuates the objectification of
non-humans
so i'm i'm really not finding anything
positive about going vegan from dxe
wayne
um and i i think that before the break
gary was was saying like well what is
somebody supposed to do i mean really
people like to disrespect my crew but
the fact is that you know my name and i
don't know you